h1. Selenium tests

h2. Overview

The selenium test folders require Selenium. Selenium comes in several packages: as a Gem, Selenium Core, Selenium IDE, the Selenium on Rails plugin and the Remote Control or RC plugin.  At the moment, ActiveScaffold only makes sure of Selenium on Rails

I tried using Selenium RC, but it works miserably with Firefox 3, and crashed for Safari... so I said "forget 'bout it"

h2. Running the tests


<pre>
# Install the Selenium On Rails plugin:
script/plugin install git://github.com/ryanb/selenium-on-rails.git

# Setup the test database
RAILS_ENV=test rake db:migrate

# Start the Rails server:
script/server -e test -p 3001

# Navigate to http://localhost:3001/selenium/
open http://localhost:3001/selenium/

</pre>

h2. Writing selenium tests

h3. Selenium IDE

I recommend downloading the "Selenium IDE":http://www.openqa.org/selenium-ide/. This is a good way to get familiar with Selenium.

h3. Installing rselenese:

The test cases in the "selenium" folder are RSelenese (.rsel) files, and can be easily created via the IDE. 

To install RSelenese for the Selenium IDE:

"Download rselenese.js":http://wiki.openqa.org/display/SIDE/SeleniumOnRails

To install, Follow the instructions under "Formats" on how to install the above rselenese format "here":http://wiki.openqa.org/display/SIDE/Contributed+Extensions+and+Formats

h2. Conclusion

What kinds of tests do we need? Which tools do we need to support?

h3. Helpful links:

* "Automate acceptance tests with Selenium":http://www.infoq.com/articles/testing-ajax-selenium
* "Selenium":http://www.openqa.org/
* "Selenium IDE":http://www.openqa.org/selenium-ide/


